<!-- -*- fill-column: 80 -*- -->

# NAME

`runit` - a `UNIX` process no 1

# SYNOPSIS

`runit`

# DESCRIPTION

`runit` must be run as Unix process no 1. It performs the system's booting,
running, and shutdown in three stages:

# STAGE 1

`runit` runs `/etc/runit/1` and waits for it to terminate. The system\'s one
time tasks are done here. `/etc/runit/1` has full control of `/dev/console` to
be able to start an emergency shell if the one time initialization tasks
fail. If `/etc/runit/1` crashes, or exits 100, `runit` will skip stage 2 and
enter stage 3.

# STAGE 2

`runit` runs `/etc/runit/2`, which should not return until system shutdown; if
it crashes, or exits 111, it will be restarted. Normally `/etc/runit/2` starts
`runsvdir`(8). `runit` is able to handle the ctrl-alt-del keyboard request in
stage 2, see below.

# STAGE 3

If `runit` is told to shutdown the system, or stage 2 returns, it terminates
stage 2 if it is running, and runs `/etc/runit/3`. The systems tasks to shutdown
and possibly halt, reboot the system or exec a binary are done here. If stage 3
returns, `runit` checks if the file `/etc/runit/reboot` exists and has the
execute by owner permission set. If so, the system is rebooted, it\'s halted
otherwise. Next it checks if the file `/etc/runit/exec` exists and has the
execute by owner permission set. If so it executes `/etc/runit/exec`,
replacing itself.

# CTRL-ALT-DEL

If `runit` receives the ctrl-alt-del keyboard request and the file
`/etc/runit/ctrlaltdel` exists and has the execute by owner permission set,
`runit` runs `/etc/runit/ctrlaltdel`, waits for it to terminate, and then sends
itself a CONT signal.

# SIGNALS

`runit` only accepts signals in stage 2.

If `runit` receives a CONT signal and the file `/etc/runit/stopit` exists and
has the execute by owner permission set, `runit` is told to shutdown the system.

if `runit` receives an INT signal, a ctrl-alt-del keyboard request is triggered.

# SEE ALSO

`runit-init(8)`, `runsvdir(8)`, `runsvchdir(8)`, `sv(8)`, `runsv(8)`,
`chpst(8)`, `utmpset(8)`, `svlogd(8)`

http://smarden.org/runit/

# AUTHOR

Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
