<!-- -*- fill-column: 80 -*- -->

# NAME

svlogd - runit\'s service logging daemon

# SYNOPSIS

`svlogd [-tttv] [-r c] [-R xyz] [-l len] [-b buflen] logs`

# DESCRIPTION

`logs` consists of one or more arguments, each specifying a directory.

`svlogd` continuously reads log data from its standard input, optionally filters
log messages, and writes the data to one or more automatically rotated `logs`.

Recent log files can automatically be processed by an arbitrary processor
program when they are rotated, and `svlogd` can be told to alert selected log
messages to standard error, and through udp.

`svlogd` runs until it sees end-of-file on standard input or is sent a `TERM`
signal, see below.

## LOG DIRECTORY

A log directory `log` contains some number of old log files, and the current log
file `current`. Old log files have a file name starting with `@` followed by a
precise timestamp (see the `daemontools`' `tai64n` program), indicating when
`current` was rotated and renamed to this file.

A log directory additionally contains the lock file `lock`, maybe `state` and
`newstate`, and optionally the file `config`. `svlogd` creates necessary files
if they don't exist.

If `svlogd` has trouble opening a log directory, it prints a warning, and
ignores this log directory. If `svlogd` is unable to open all log directories
given at the command line, it exits with an error. This can happen on start-up
or after receiving a HUP signal.

## LOG FILE ROTATION

`svlogd` appends selected log messages to the `current` log file. If `current`
has `size` bytes or more (or there is a new-line within the last `len` of `size`
bytes), or is older than a specified amount of `time`, `current` is rotated:

`svlogd` closes `current`, changes permission of `current` to `0755`, renames
`current` to `@timestamp.s,` and starts with a new empty `current`. If `svlogd`
sees `num` or more old log files in the log directory, it removes the oldest
one. Note that this doesn't decrease the number of log files if there are
already more than `num` log files, this must be done manually, e.g. for keeping
10 log files:

```
ls -1 \@* | sort | sed -ne '10,$p' | xargs rm
```

## PROCESSOR

If `svlogd` is told to process recent log files, it saves `current` to
`@timestamp.u,` feeds `@timestamp.u` through `sh -c "processor"` and writes the
output to `@timestamp.t.` If the `processor` finishes successfully,
`@timestamp.t` is renamed to `@timestamp.s,` and `@timestamp.u` is deleted;
otherwise `@timestamp.t` is deleted and the `processor` is started
again. `svlogd` also saves any output that the `processor` writes to file
descriptor 5, and makes that output available on file descriptor 4 when running
`processor` on the next log file rotation.

A `processor` is run in the background. If `svlogd` sees a previously started
`processor` still running when trying to start a new one for the same `log`, it
blocks until the currently running `processor` has finished successfully. Only
the `HUP` signal works in that situation. Note that this may block any program
feeding its log data to `svlogd.`

## CONFIG

On startup, and after receiving a `HUP` signal, `svlogd` checks for each log
directory `log` if the configuration file `log/config` exists, and if so, reads
the file line by line and adjusts configuration for `log` as follows:

If the line is empty, or starts with a `#`, it is ignored. A line of the form

`ssize`

:   sets the maximum file size of `current` when `svlogd` should rotate the
    current log file to `size` bytes. Default is 1000000. If `size` is zero,
    `svlogd` doesn\'t rotate log files. You should set `size` to at least (2 \`
    `len`).

`nnum`

:   sets the number of old log files `svlogd` should maintain to `num`. If
    `svlogd` sees more that `num` old log files in `log` after log file
    rotation, it deletes the oldest one. Default is 10.  If `num` is zero,
    `svlogd` doesn\'t remove old log files.

`Nmin`

:   sets the minimum number of old log files `svlogd` should maintain to
    `min`. `min` must be less than `num`. If `min` is set, and `svlogd` cannot
    write to `current` because the filesystem is full, and it sees more than
    `min` old log files, it deletes the oldest one.

`ttimeout`

:   sets the maximum age of the `current` log file when `svlogd` should rotate
    the current log file to `timeout` seconds. If `current` is `timeout` seconds
    old, and is not empty, `svlogd` forces log file rotation.

`!processor`

:   tells `svlogd` to feed each recent log file through `processor` (see above)
    on log file rotation. By default log files are not processed.

`ua.b.c.d[:port]`

:   tells `svlogd` to transmit the first `len` characters of selected log
    messages to the IP address `a.b.c.d`, port number `port`. If `port` isn't
    set, the default port for syslog is used (514). `len` can be set through the
    `-l` option, see below. If `svlogd` has trouble sending udp packets, it
    writes error messages to the log directory. Attention: logging through UDP
    is unreliable, and should be used in private networks only.

`Ua.b.c.d\[:port\]`

:   is the same as the `u` line above, but the log messages are no longer
    written to the log directory, but transmitted through udp only. Error
    messages from `svlogd` concerning sending udp packages still go to the log
    directory.

`pprefix`

:   tells `svlogd` to prefix each line to be written to the log directory, to
    standard error, or through UDP, with `prefix`.

If a line starts with a `-`, `+`, `e`, or `E`, `svlogd` matches the first `len`
characters of each log message against `pattern` and acts accordingly:

`-pattern`

:   the log message is deselected.

`+pattern`

:   the log message is selected.

`epattern`

:   the log message is selected to be printed to standard error.

`Epattern`

:   the log message is deselected to be printed to standard error.

Initially each line is selected to be written to `log/current`.  Deselected log
messages are discarded from `log`. Initially each line is deselected to be
written to standard err. Log messages selected for standard error are written to
standard error.

# PATTERN MATCHING

`svlogd` matches a log message against the string `pattern` as follows:

`pattern` is applied to the log message one character by one, starting with the
first. A character not a star ("`*`") and not a plus ("`+`") matches itself. A
plus matches the next character in `pattern` in the log message one or more
times. A star before the end of `pattern` matches any string in the log message
that does not include the next character in `pattern`. A star at the end of
`pattern` matches any string.

Timestamps optionally added by `svlogd` are not considered part of the log
message.

An `svlogd` pattern is not a regular expression. For example consider a log
message like this

```
2005-12-18_09:13:50.97618 tcpsvd: info: pid 1977 from 10.4.1.14
```

The following pattern doesn't match

```
-*pid*
```

because the first star matches up to the first p in tcpsvd, and then the match
fails because i is not s. To match this log message, you can use a pattern like
this instead

```
-*: *: pid *
```

# OPTIONS

`-t`

:   timestamp. Prefix each selected line with a precise timestamp (see the
    `daemontools`' `tai64n` program) when writing to `log` or to standard error.

`-tt`

:   timestamp. Prefix each selected line with a human readable, sortable UTC
    timestamp of the form `YYYY-MM-DD_HH:MM:SS.xxxxx` when writing to `log` or
    to standard error.

`-ttt`

:   timestamp. Prefix each selected line with a human readable, sortable UTC
    timestamp of the form `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.xxxxx` when writing to `log` or
    to standard error.

`-r c`

:   replace. `c` must be a single character. Replace non-printable characters in
    log messages with `c`. Characters are replaced before pattern matching is
    applied.

`-R xyz`

:   replace charset. Additionally to non-printable characters, replace all
    characters found in `xyz` with `c` (default "`_`").

`-l `len``

:   line length. Pattern matching applies to the first `len` characters of a log
    message only. Default is 1000.

`-b `buflen``

:   buffer size. Set the size of the buffer `svlogd` uses when reading from
    standard input and writing to `logs` to `buflen`. Default is 1024. `buflen`
    must be greater than `len`. For `svlogd` instances that process a lot of
    data in short time, the buffer size should be increased to improve
    performance.

`-v`

:   verbose. Print verbose messages to standard error.

# SIGNALS

If `svlogd` is sent a `HUP`j signal, it closes and reopens all `logs`, and
updates their configuration according to `log/config`. If `svlogd` has trouble
opening a log directory, it prints a warning, and discards this log
directory. If `svlogd` is unable to open all log directories given at the
command line, it exits with an error.

If `svlogd` is sent a `TERM` signal, or if it sees end-of-file on standard
input, it stops reading standard input, processes the data in the buffer, waits
for all `processor` subprocesses to finish if any, and exits 0 as soon as
possible.

If `svlogd` is sent an `ALRM` signal, it forces log file rotation for all `logs`
with a non empty `current` log file.

# SEE ALSO

`sv(8)`, `runsv(8)`, `chpst(8)`, `runit(8)`, `runit-init(8)`, `runsvdir(8)`,
`runsvchdir(8)`

http://smarden.org/runit/

# AUTHOR

Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
