[G. Pape](http://smarden.org/pape/)\
[runit](index.html)\

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# runit - benefits

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Service supervision](#supervision)\
[Clean process state](#state)\
[Reliable logging facility](#log)\
[Fast system boot up and shutdown](#fast)\
[Portability](#portability)\
[Packaging friendly](#packaging)\
[Small code size](#smallcode)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#supervision}

### Service supervision

Each service is associated with a *service directory*, and each service daemon
runs as a child process of a supervising [runsv](runsv.8.html) process running
in this directory. The [runsv](runsv.8.html) program provides a reliable
interface for signalling the service daemon and controlling the service and
supervisor. Normally the [sv](sv.8.html) program is used to send commands
through this interface, and to query status informations about the service.

The [runsv](runsv.8.html) program supervises the corresponding service daemon.
By default a service is defined to be up, that means, if the service daemon
dies, it will be restarted. Of course you can [tell runsv](sv.8.html) otherwise.

This reliable interface to control daemons and supervisors obsoletes
pid-guessing programs, such as pidof, killall, start-stop-daemon, which, due to
guessing, are prone to failures by design. It also obsoletes so called
pid-files, no need for each and every service daemon to include code to
daemonize, to write the new process id into a file, and to take care that the
file is removed properly on shutdown, which might be very difficult in case of a
crash.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#state}

### Clean process state

*runit* guarantees each service a clean process state, no matter if the service
is activated for the first time or automatically at boot time, reactivated, or
simply restarted. This means that the service always is started with the same
environment, resource limits, open file descriptors, and controlling terminals.

You don\'t necessarily have that with *sysv init* scripts for example. It
requires a carefully written init script that reliably cleans up and sets the
process state before starting the service daemon. This adds even more complexity
to the init script in comparison with a run script used by *runit*. Many of
today\'s init scripts don\'t provide a clean process state, here is an example
on what could happen:

     # /etc/init.d/foo-daemon start
     Starting foo daemon: food.
     #

Fine. Everything works, nothing to worry about. After rebooting the system this
shows up on the screen:

     ...
     Starting foo daemon: food: command not found
     failed.
     ...

The food program is installed in /opt/foo/bin/. When starting the service for
the first time using the init script, the PATH environment variable contained
/opt/foo/bin. After reboot init started the service using the init script, but
with a different value for the PATH variable, not containing /opt/foo/bin. Of
course the init script should have set PATH before starting the daemon; the
problem is that it worked in the first place, and that the error didn\'t show up
until system reboot.

With bad init scripts miraculous things could also happen when just doing

     # /etc/init.d/foo-daemon restart

at the command line.

The clean process state includes open file descriptors, obsoleting the widely
used hack in many service daemons to force-close all file descriptors that might
be open, up to the limit of available file descriptors for the daemon process
(often results in 1024 unnecessary close() system calls in a great number of
service daemon implementations).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#log}

### Reliable logging facility

The [runsv](runsv.8.html) program provides a reliable logging facility for the
service daemon. If configured, [runsv](runsv.8.html) creates a pipe, starts and
supervises an additional log service, redirects the log daemon\'s standard input
to read from the pipe, and redirects the service daemon\'s standard output to
write to the pipe. Restarting the service does not require restarting the log
service, and vice versa. A good choice for a log daemon is *runit*\'s service
logging daemon [svlogd](svlogd.8.html).

The service daemon and the log daemon can run with different process states, and
under different user id\'s. *runit* supports easy and reliable logging for
service daemons running chroot\'ed.

If [runsv](runsv.8.html) is told to shutdown a service, e.g. at system shutdown,
it ensures that the log service stays up as long as the corresponding service
daemon is running and possibly writing to the log.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#fast}

### Fast system boot up and shutdown

After the system\'s one time tasks (stage 1) are done, the system services are
started up in parallel. The operating system\'s process scheduler takes care of
having the services available as soon as possible.

On system shutdown, stage 3 uses [runsv](runsv.8.html)\'s control interface to
wait until each service daemon is terminated and all logs are written. Again,
services are taken down in parallel. As soon as all services are down, system
halt or system reboot is initiated.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#portability}

### Portability

*runit* comes ready-to-run for Debian GNU/Linux and BSD systems, and can easily
be configured to run on other UNIX systems. The UNIX system\'s one time
initialization tasks and tasks to shutdown the system must be identified and
*runit*\'s stages 1 and 3 configured accordingly.

Stages 1 and 3 handle one time tasks. They only run for short and exit soon.
Stage 2 handles the system\'s uptime tasks (via the [runsvdir](runsvdir.8.html)
program) and is running the whole system\'s uptime.

*runit*\'s stage 2 is portable across UNIX systems. *runit* is well suited for
server systems and embedded systems, and also does its job well on desktop
systems.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#packaging}

### Packaging friendly

*runit*\'s stages 1 and 3 are distribution specific. They normally are shell
scripts, and an operating system distribution with software package management
should adapt these scripts if they need support for their package management.
The [runit-run](http://packages.debian.org/unstable/admin/runit-run.html) Debian
package is an attempt to integrate *runit* into [Debian
GNU/Linux](http://www.debian.org/) as an alternative to the default
[sysvinit](http://packages.debian.org/unstable/base/sysvinit.html).

Stage 2 is packaging friendly: all a software package that provides a service
needs to do is to include a *service directory* in the package, and to provide a
symbolic link to this directory in /service/. The service will be started within
five seconds, and automatically at boot time. The package\'s install and update
scripts can use the reliable control interface to stop, start, restart, or send
signals to the service. On package removal, the symbolic link simply is removed.
The service will be taken down automatically.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[]{#smallcode}

### Small code size

One of the *runit* project\'s principles is to keep the code size small. As of
version 1.0.0 of *runit*, the runit.c source contains 330 lines of code; the
runsvdir.c source is 274 lines of code, the runsv.c source 509. This minimizes
the possibility of bugs introduced by programmer\'s fault, and makes it more
easy for security related people to proofread the source code.

The *runit* core programs have a very small memory footprint and do not allocate
memory dynamically.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Gerrit Pape \<pape@smarden.org\>](mailto:pape@smarden.org)
