[G. Pape](http://smarden.org/pape/)\
[runit](index.html)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## [Name]{#sect0}

svlogd - runit's service logging daemon

## [Synopsis]{#sect1}

**svlogd** \[-tttv\] \[-r *c\]* \[-R *xyz\]* \[-l *len\]* \[-b *buflen\]* *logs*

## [Description]{#sect2}

*logs* consists of one or more arguments, each specifying a directory.

**svlogd** continuously reads log data from its standard input, optionally
filters log messages, and writes the data to one or more automatically rotated
*logs*.

Recent log files can automatically be processed by an arbitrary processor
program when they are rotated, and **svlogd** can be told to alert selected log
messages to standard error, and through udp.

**svlogd** runs until it sees end-of-file on standard input or is sent a TERM
signal, see below.

### [Log Directory]{#sect3}

A log directory *log* contains some number of old log files, and the current log
file *current*. Old log files have a file name starting with *@* followed by a
precise timestamp (see the daemontools' **tai64n** program), indicating when
*current* was rotated and renamed to this file.

A log directory additionally contains the lock file *lock*, maybe *state* and
*newstate*, and optionally the file *config*. **svlogd** creates necessary files
if they don't exist.

If **svlogd** has trouble opening a log directory, it prints a warning, and
ignores this log directory. If **svlogd** is unable to open all log directories
given at the command line, it exits with an error. This can happen on start-up
or after receiving a HUP signal.

### [Log File Rotation]{#sect4}

**svlogd** appends selected log messages to the *current* log file. If *current*
has *size* bytes or more (or there is a new-line within the last *len* of *size*
bytes), or is older than a specified amount of *time*, *current* is rotated:

**svlogd** closes *current*, changes permission of *current* to 0755, renames
*current* to @*timestamp.s,* and starts with a new empty *current*. If
**svlogd** sees *num* or more old log files in the log directory, it removes the
oldest one. Note that this doesn't decrease the number of log files if there are
already more than *num* log files, this must be done manually, e.g. for keeping
10 log files:

ls -1 \\@\* \|sort \|sed -ne '10,\$p' \|xargs rm\

### [Processor]{#sect5}

If **svlogd** is told to process recent log files, it saves *current* to
@*timestamp.u,* feeds @*timestamp.u* through ''sh -c \"*processor*\"'' and
writes the output to @*timestamp.t.* If the *processor* finishes successfully,
@*timestamp.t* is renamed to @*timestamp.s,* and @*timestamp.u* is deleted;
otherwise @*timestamp.t* is deleted and the *processor* is started again.
**svlogd** also saves any output that the *processor* writes to file descriptor
5, and makes that output available on file descriptor 4 when running *processor*
on the next log file rotation.

A *processor* is run in the background. If **svlogd** sees a previously started
*processor* still running when trying to start a new one for the same *log*, it
blocks until the currently running *processor* has finished successfully. Only
the HUP signal works in that situation. Note that this may block any program
feeding its log data to **svlogd.**

### [Config]{#sect6}

On startup, and after receiving a HUP signal, **svlogd** checks for each log
directory *log* if the configuration file *log/config* exists, and if so, reads
the file line by line and adjusts configuration for *log* as follows:

If the line is empty, or starts with a ''#'', it is ignored. A line of the form

s*size*
:   sets the maximum file size of *current* when **svlogd** should rotate the
    current log file to *size* bytes. Default is 1000000. If *size* is zero,
    **svlogd** doesn't rotate log files. You should set *size* to at least (2 \*
    *len*).

n*num*
:   sets the number of old log files **svlogd** should maintain to *num*. If
    **svlogd** sees more that *num* old log files in *log* after log file
    rotation, it deletes the oldest one. Default is 10. If *num* is zero,
    **svlogd** doesn't remove old log files.

N*min*
:   sets the minimum number of old log files **svlogd** should maintain to
    *min*. *min* must be less than *num*. If *min* is set, and **svlogd** cannot
    write to *current* because the filesystem is full, and it sees more than
    *min* old log files, it deletes the oldest one.

t*timeout*
:   sets the maximum age of the *current* log file when **svlogd** should rotate
    the current log file to *timeout* seconds. If *current* is *timeout* seconds
    old, and is not empty, **svlogd** forces log file rotation.

!*processor*
:   tells **svlogd** to feed each recent log file through *processor* (see
    above) on log file rotation. By default log files are not processed.

u*a.b.c.d\[:port\]*
:   tells **svlogd** to transmit the first *len* characters of selected log
    messages to the IP address *a.b.c.d*, port number *port*. If *port* isn't
    set, the default port for syslog is used (514). *len* can be set through the
    -l option, see below. If **svlogd** has trouble sending udp packets, it
    writes error messages to the log directory. Attention: logging through udp
    is unreliable, and should be used in private networks only.

U*a.b.c.d\[:port\]*
:   is the same as the *u* line above, but the log messages are no longer
    written to the log directory, but transmitted through udp only. Error
    messages from **svlogd** concerning sending udp packages still go to the log
    directory.

p*prefix*
:   tells **svlogd** to prefix each line to be written to the log directory, to
    standard error, or through UDP, with *prefix*.

If a line starts with a *-*, *+*, *e*, or *E*, **svlogd** matches the first
*len* characters of each log message against *pattern* and acts accordingly:

\-*pattern*
:   the log message is deselected.

\+*pattern*
:   the log message is selected.

e*pattern*
:   the log message is selected to be printed to standard error.

E*pattern*
:   the log message is deselected to be printed to standard error.

Initially each line is selected to be written to *log/current*. Deselected log
messages are discarded from *log*. Initially each line is deselected to be
written to standard err. Log messages selected for standard error are written to
standard error.

## [Pattern Matching]{#sect7}

**svlogd** matches a log message against the string *pattern* as follows:

*pattern* is applied to the log message one character by one, starting with the
first. A character not a star (''\*'') and not a plus (''+'') matches itself. A
plus matches the next character in *pattern* in the log message one or more
times. A star before the end of *pattern* matches any string in the log message
that does not include the next character in *pattern*. A star at the end of
*pattern* matches any string.

Timestamps optionally added by **svlogd** are not considered part of the log
message.

An **svlogd** pattern is not a regular expression. For example consider a log
message like this

2005-12-18_09:13:50.97618 tcpsvd: info: pid 1977 from 10.4.1.14\

The following pattern doesn't match

-\*pid\*\

because the first star matches up to the first p in tcpsvd, and then the match
fails because i is not s. To match this log message, you can use a pattern like
this instead

-\*: \*: pid \*\

## [Options]{#sect8}

**-t**

timestamp. Prefix each selected line with a precise timestamp (see the
daemontools' **tai64n** program) when writing to *log* or to standard error.

**-tt**

timestamp. Prefix each selected line with a human readable, sortable UTC
timestamp of the form YYYY-MM-DD_HH:MM:SS.xxxxx when writing to *log* or to
standard error.

**-ttt**

timestamp. Prefix each selected line with a human readable, sortable UTC
timestamp of the form YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.xxxxx when writing to *log* or to
standard error.

-r *c*

replace. *c* must be a single character. Replace non-printable characters in log
messages with *c*. Characters are replaced before pattern matching is applied.

-R *xyz*

replace charset. Additionally to non-printable characters, replace all
characters found in *xyz* with *c* (default ''\_'').

-l *len*

line length. Pattern matching applies to the first *len* characters of a log
message only. Default is 1000.

-b *buflen*

buffer size. Set the size of the buffer **svlogd** uses when reading from
standard input and writing to *logs* to *buflen*. Default is 1024. *buflen* must
be greater than *len*. For **svlogd** instances that process a lot of data in
short time, the buffer size should be increased to improve performance.

**-v**

verbose. Print verbose messages to standard error.

## [Signals]{#sect9}

If **svlogd** is sent a HUP signal, it closes and reopens all *logs*, and
updates their configuration according to *log/config*. If **svlogd** has trouble
opening a log directory, it prints a warning, and discards this log directory.
If **svlogd** is unable to open all log directories given at the command line,
it exits with an error.

If **svlogd** is sent a TERM signal, or if it sees end-of-file on standard
input, it stops reading standard input, processes the data in the buffer, waits
for all *processor* subprocesses to finish if any, and exits 0 as soon as
possible.

If **svlogd** is sent an ALRM signal, it forces log file rotation for all *logs*
with a non empty *current* log file.

## [See Also]{#sect10}

*sv(8)*, *runsv(8)*, *chpst(8)*, *runit(8)*, *runit-init(8)*, *runsvdir(8)*,
*runsvchdir(8)*

*http://smarden.org/runit/*

## [Author]{#sect11}

Gerrit Pape \<pape@smarden.org\>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Table of Contents**]{#toc}

[Name](#sect0){#toc0}

[Synopsis](#sect1){#toc1}

[Description](#sect2){#toc2}

-   [Log Directory](#sect3){#toc3}
-   [Log File Rotation](#sect4){#toc4}
-   [Processor](#sect5){#toc5}
-   [Config](#sect6){#toc6}

[Pattern Matching](#sect7){#toc7}

[Options](#sect8){#toc8}

[Signals](#sect9){#toc9}

[See Also](#sect10){#toc10}

[Author](#sect11){#toc11}
