[G. Pape](http://smarden.org/pape/)\
[runit](index.html)\

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# runit - upgrading from previous versions

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 2.0.0 to 2.1.2

The [chpst](chpst.8.html) program learned a new option -b to run a program with
a different name as the 0th argument.

### 1.9.0 to 2.0.0

No further action from you is required.

### 1.8.0 to 1.9.0

The default directory for services is now /service/, and no longer
/var/service/. To be consistent with the new default location, create a symlink
when upgrading

     # ln -s /var/service /

When installing runit on a system that should comply with the Filesystem
Hierarchy Standard (FHS), neither /service/ nor /var/service/ should be chosen,
but /etc/service/. It is recommended to create a compatibility symlink /service
pointing to /etc/service in this case.

### 1.7.x to 1.8.0

The [runit](runit.8.html) program, the process no 1, has been fixed to reap dead
processes that re-parented to process no 1 (zombies) more thoroughly.
Instructions on how to run runit with upstart as init scheme have been added,
[svlogd](svlogd.8.html) has been changed to use a new source port for each log
message sent through udp, and this release includes a build fix for AIX.

### 1.6.0 to 1.7.x

With this version the [runsv](runsv.8.html) program starts to run the ./finish
script with two arguments, the exit code and the exit status of the just
finished ./run script. The timestamp [svlogd](svlogd.8.html) optionally prepends
to log messages can be specified to be in iso 8601 alike format. See the man
pages for details.

### 1.5.x to 1.6.0

[svlogd](svlogd.8.html) has been changed to prepend the optional timestamp also
to log messages sent to the network through UDP, just as it does for log
messages written to a log directory or standard error.

### 1.4.0 or 1.4.1 to 1.5.x

The [svlogd](svlogd.8.html) program supports a new configuration option p to
optionally prefix each line written to logs, standard error, or through UDP with
a string, and no longer strips empty lines from the logs.

### 1.3.x to 1.4.0 or 1.4.1

With this version the runsvctrl, runsvstat, svwaitdown, and svwaitup programs no
longer are being installed, the functionality of these programs has been
incorporated into the [sv](sv.8.html) program. The documentation now suggest to
put service directories by default into the /etc/sv/ directory, and a list of
frequently asked questions with answers has been added. The
[chpst](chpst.8.html) program understands a new option -d to limit memory of the
data segment per process.

### 1.2.x to 1.3.x

This release introduces a first test version of the [sv](sv.8.html) program,
which can be used to control the state and query the status of services
monitored by [runsv](runsv.8.html). Optionally it can be sym-linked into
/etc/init.d/ to provide an interface to LSB init script actions for services
controlled by runit. See the [man page](sv.8.html) for details. Thanks to Lars
Uffmann, instructions on how to run runit under launchd on MacOSX 10.4 have been
added.

### 1.1.0 to 1.2.x

With this version the [runsv](runsv.8.html) program makes controlling the
service through commands normally sent by [runsvctrl](runsvctrl.8.html)
configurable; arbitrary actions through external programs can optionally be
specified, and signalling of the service disabled if desired. See the [man
page](runsv.8.html) for details.

[runsv](runsv.8.html) now reports the seconds since ./run has been started when
running the ./finish script, instead of the seconds since ./finish has been
started. It no longer reports immediately failing ./run scripts as
\`\`running\'\' for up to one second, but as \`\`down, normally up, want up\'\'.

### 1.0.x to 1.1.0

The [svlogd](svlogd.8.html) program now interprets the \`\`e\'\' and \`\`E\'\'
configuration options so that they can be combined to select or deselect log
messages to be written to standard error, similar to the \`\`+\'\' and \`\`-\'\'
options for the rotated log. It also provides the new \`\`t\'\' and \`\`N\'\'
configuration options, see the [man page](svlogd.8.html) for details. The
[chpst](chpst.8.html) program supports adjusting the nice level through the new
-n command line option.

Starting with this version, /etc/runit/2 by default runs the
[runsvdir](runsvdir.8.html) program with the -P option. To adapt edit
/etc/runit/2 and change the invocation of [runsvdir](runsvdir.8.html)
accordingly, see [here](../etc/2){\"=""}.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Gerrit Pape \<pape@smarden.org\>](mailto:pape@smarden.org)
